---layout: bt_wikititle: Installing using Packages for Common OS Distributionscategory: Installationdraft: falseweight: 200---You can reduce the complexity of the Cloudify installation process by using a Cloudify installation package. These packages are the recommended installation method for new users.After you have downloaded the appropriate packages you do not an active internet connection duringthe installation process.##Installation WorkflowThe basic workflow  for Installing Cloudify is similar for all supported operating systems.1. [Download the appropriate installer package](http://getcloudify.org/downloads/get_cloudify_3x.html) for your operating system.2. Run the installer according to the instructions provided below for your operating system.### Linux Distributions#### Centos/RHEL1. [Download the installer](http://getcloudify.org/downloads/get_cloudify_3x.html).2. Select one of the following options to run the installer:  a. If running in graphical environment, double click the installation file.  b. In your terminal run the following command, where `<pkg.rpm>` isthe path of the file you just downloaded.      {{< gsHighlight bash>}}$ sudo rpm -i <_pkg.rpm_>{{< /gsHighlight >}}#### Debian/Ubuntu1. [Download the installer](http://getcloudify.org/downloads/get_cloudify_3x.html).2. Select one of the following options to run the installer:  a. If running in graphical environment, double click the installation file.  b. In your terminal run the following command, where `<pkg.deb>` isthe path of the file you just downloaded.        {{< gsHighlight bash>}}$ sudo dpkg -i <_pkg.deb_>{{< /gsHighlight >}}### WindowsThe Windows installer is a single executable that installs the following:* Python 2.7.x* Pip* Virtualenv* Cloudify{{% gsNote title="Installing Prerequisites" %}}The Python installation requires [Microsoft Visual C++ 2008 Redistributable](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=29).Install this application in the event that an error is returend during the Python installation.{{% /gsNote %}}{{% gsNote title="Installing Python and Pip" %}}When the Python setup wizard is running, you have the option to install pip or not.Regardless of your selection, pip is installed in the next steps, because it isrequired by Cloudify.{{% /gsNote %}}##### To install on Windows1. [Download the installer](http://getcloudify.org/downloads/get_cloudify_3x.html).2. Run the installer and follow the installation instructions.3. When the installation is finished, double click the Cloudify icon on your desktop.